# Computer Networks

> by Neso Academy

## 0. Introduction to Computer Networks

### 0.1. 章节介绍

- Chapter 1 Fundamentals: 基本原理
- Chapter 2 Data Link Layer
- Chapter 3 Network Layer
- Chapter 4 Transport Layer
- Chapter 5 Application Layer
- Chapter 6 Network Security

### 0.2 Computer Network 解析

- A computer network is a set of **nodes** connected by **communication links**.
  - nodes:
    - A node can be a computer, printer or any other device capable of(能够) sending/receiving data generated by other nodes in network.
    - examples: Computer, Server, Printer, Security Camera, Switches, Bridges, Routers, etc...
  - communication links
    - A communication link can be a wired link or wireless link. The link carries the information.
      - wired link
      - wireless link
- end nodes and intermediary nodes
  | end devices | intermediary nodes |
  | ----- | ----- |
  | Printer | Cell Tower |
  | Desktop Computers | Switch |
  | Tablet | Router |
  | Web Server | Wireless Router |
  | Smart Phone | Modem |

### 0.3 Summary

- Understand "What is computer network?"
- Identify end devices and intermediary devices

## 1. Computer Networks - Basic Characteristics(基本特性)

### 1.1 be able to

1. understand the need for fault tolerant networks
2. understand the need for scalable networks
3. understand Quality of Service(QoS)(服务质量)
4. know the importance of security in computer networks

### 1.2 four basic characteristics

- Fault Tolerance
  1. Continue working despite(尽管) failures
  2. Ensure no loss of service
- Scalability
  1. Grow based on the needs
  2. Have good performance after growth
- Quality of Service
  1. Set priorities
  2. Manage data traffic to reduce data loss, delay etc...
     - real time communication
     - e-mail communication
- Security
  - prevent
    1. unauthorized access
    2. misuse
    3. forgery(伪造品，赝品)
  - provide
    1. confidentiality(保密性)
    2. integrity(完整性)
    3. availability

## 2. Network Protocols & Communications

### 2.1 be able to

1. Know "What is Data Communication"?
2. Understand data flow
3. Understand the importance of protocaols in computer network
4. Know the elements of protocol

### 2.2 Data Communication and Data Flow

- Data Communication
  - Data communications are the exchange of data between two nodes via(通过) some form of link(transmission medium)(传输介质) such as a cable(电缆).
- Data Flow
  - Simplex(单一的，单工的)
    - 书面定义：Communication is always unidirectional.
    - 通俗来讲：One device can transmit and the other device will receive.
    - examples: keyboards, traditional monitors
  - Half Duplex(双向的)
    - 书面定义： Communication is in both directions but not at the same time.
    - 通俗来讲：If one device is sending, the other can only receive, and vice versa(反之亦然).
    - example: walkie-talkie(步话机)
  - Full Duplex
    - 书面定义：Communication is in both directions simultaneously(同时地).
    - 通俗来讲：Device can send and receive at the same time.
    - example: telephone line

### 2.3 Protocols

- All communication schemes(方案，计划) will have the following things in common:
  1. source or sender
  2. destination or receiver
  3. channel or media
  - Rules or protocols governs all methods of communication.
- Protocol determins:
  1. What is communicated?
  2. How it is communicated?
  3. When it is communicated?
- Human Communication
  1. An identified sender and receiver.
  2. Common language and grammer.
  3. Speed and timming of delivery.
  4. Confirmation or acknowledgement requirements.
- Network Communication
  1. Message encoding
     - message source => encoder(signal) => transmitter => transmission medium(wired/wireless) => receiver => decoder => message destination
  2. Message formatting and encapsulation(封装，包装)
     - agreed format
     - encapsulate the information to identify the sender and the receiver rightly.
  3. Message timing(时间，时机)
     - flow control
     - response timeout
  4. Message size
     - Humans break long messages into smaller parts or sentences.
     - Long messages must also be broken into smaller pieces to travel across a network.
  5. Message delivery options
     - unicast
     - multicast
     - broadcast

### 2.4 Peer-to-Peer network and Client Server Network

- Peer-to-Peer Network
  - No centralized(集中的，中央集权的) administration.
  - All peers are equal.
  - Simple sharing applications
  - Not scalable.
- Client Server Network
  - Centralized administration
  - Request-Response model
  - Scalable
  - Server may be overloaded

## 3. Components of a Computer Network

### 3.1 be able to

1. Understand nodes in computer network
2. Understand different media in computer network
3. Understand various services offered by computer network

### 3.2 content

- Components of a Computer Network
  - Nodes
    - end nodes(devices)
      - Computers
      - Network Printers
      - VoIP Phones
      - Security cameras
      - Mobile handled devices: smart phones, tablets, PDAs, wireless debit/credit card reader, barcode(条形码) scanner
    - intermediary nodes(devices)
      - switches
      - wireless access point(无线接入点)
      - routers
      - security devices(firewall)
      - bridges
      - hubs(集线器)
      - repeaters(中继器，转发器)
      - cell tower
  - Media
    - wired medium(guided medium)
      - ethernet(以太网) straight-through(直通) cable 直通双绞线
        - 两端采用同样的线缆标准制作的线缆
        - 用于不同设备连接
      - ethernet crossover(交叉) cable
      - fiber optic(视觉的) cable 光纤
      - coaxial cable 同轴电缆
      - USB cable
    - wireless medium(unguided medium)
      - infrared(红外线的)
        - short range communication
        - example: TV remote control
      - radio(无线电通讯)
        - examples: bluetooth, wi-fi
      - microwaves
        - example: cellular system(蜂窝系统)
      - satellite(卫星传送的)
        - long range communication
        - GPS
  - Services
    - e-mail
    - storage services
    - file sharing
    - instant messaging
    - online game
    - voice over IP
    - video telephony(拨号服务，电话)
    - world wide web

## 4. Classification(分级，分类) of Computer Networks

### 4.1 be able to

1. Understand LAN, MAN and WAN
2. Know various devices involved in LAN, MAN and WAN
3. Know the new trends in computer networks

### 4.2 Classification

- LAN
  - Local Area Network
  - 定义：A local area network(LAN) is a computer network that interconnects(相互联系) computers within a limited area such as a residence(住宅), school, laboratory, university campus or office building.
  - LAN devices
    - wired LAN
      - ethernet -- Hub, Swith
    - wireless LAN
      - WI-FI
- MAN
  - Metropolitan(大都市的) Area Network
  - 定义：A metropolitan area network(WAN) is a computer network taht interconnects users with computer resources in a geographic region of the size of a metropolitan area(city).
  - MAN devices
    - switches/hub
    - routers/bridges
- WAN
  - Wide Area Network
  - 定义：A wide wrea network is a telecommunications(无线电通讯，远程通信) network that extends over a large geographical(地理的，区域的) area for the primary purpose of computer networking.
  - WAN devices
    - end devices and intermediary devices

### 4.3 New Trends

1. Bring Your Own Device(BYOD)(自备设备办公)
2. Online collaboration(合作)
3. Cloud computing
   - It is the on-demand availability of computer system resources, especially data storage and computing power, without direct active management by the user.

## 5. Network Topology(拓扑学)

### 5.1 be able to

1. Understand various network topologies such as bus, ring, star, mesh adn hybrid.
2. Understand the advantages and disadvantages of each topology.

### Topologies

- Network Topology
  - 定义：Arrangement of nodes of a computer network.
  - 分类
    - physical topology
      - placement of various nodes
    - logical topology
      - deals with the data flow in the network
- logical topology
  - Bus Topology
    1. All data transmitted between nodes in the network is transmitted over this common transmission medium and is able to be received by all nodes in the network simultaneously(同时地).
    2. A signal containing the address of the intended receiving machine travels from a source machine in both directions to all mathines connected to the bus until it finds the intended recipient(接收者).
    - advantages and disadvantages
      | Advantages | Disadvantages |
      | --- | --- |
      | Only one wire - less expensive | Not fault tolerant(No redundancy 冗余) |
      | Suited for temporary network | Limited cable length |
      | Node failures does not affect others | No security |
  - Ring
    1. A ring topology is a bus topology in a closed loop.
    2. Peer-to-peer LAN topology
    3. Two connections: one to each of its nearest neighbors.
    4. Unidirectional
    5. Sending and receiving data takes place with the help of a TOKEN.
    - advantages and disadvantages
      | Advantages | Disadvantages |
      | --- | --- |
      | Performance better than Bus Topology | Unidirectional. Single point of failure will affect the whole network |
      | Can cause bottleneck(瓶颈) due to weak links | ↑ in load => ↓ in performance |
      | All nodes with equal access | No security |
  - Star
    1. Every node is connected to a central node called a hub or switch.
    2. Centralized Management.
    3. All traffic must pass through the hub or switch.
    - advantages and disadvantages
      | Advantages | Disadvantages |
      | --- | --- |
      | Easy to design and implement | Single point of failure affects the whole network |
      | Centralized administration | Bottlenecks due to overloaded switch/hub. |
      | Scalable | Increased cost due to switch/hub |
    - Extended Star Topology
      - Star topologies connected by a repeater.
  - Mesh
    1. Each node is directly connected to every other nodes in the network.
    2. Fault tolerant and reliable.
    - advantages and disadvantages
      | Advantages | Disadvantages |
      | --- | --- |
      | Fault tolerant | Issues with broadcasting messages |
      | reliable | Expensive and impractical(不明智的，不切实际的) for large networks |
  - Hybrid
